while this is weird
earth-shaking booming sounds have been
reverberating off some parts of north
carolina
for more than 150 years called seneca
guns
they're mostly heard near the coast the
sounds are so powerful
they often rattle window panes and
sometimes vibrate
entire buildings they can last from one
to almost 10 seconds
even though scientists haven't cracked
this mystery yet
there are some theories they range from
earthquakes to severe distant storms and
quarry blasts
but even though the ground trembles
every time the phenomenon occurs
no seismic activity coincides with these
events
so far scientists have concluded that
the mysterious sounds happen in the
atmosphere
not on or under the planet's surface if
this theory is true
bolids might be the answer these
extremely bright meteors often explode
once they enter our planet's atmosphere
or the seneca guns
might be born in the ocean sometimes
when enormous waves collide far away
from the shore
you can still hear it even if you are
nowhere near the coast
the puroroka means great roar this
phenomenon happens when the edge of an
incoming tide creates a wave
and this wave which can reach a height
of 13 feet
then travels upstream it can move 500
miles inland on the amazon river
no wonder the puroroka is popular with
surfers
some of them managed to ride the world's
longest wave for 33 minutes
but it's not all fun and games surfing
the puroroka isn't safe
because of the debris from the
riverbanks
now once you set foot on the arid soil
of the namib
desert in namibia you'll see an eerie
picture
countless circular patches from six to
fifty feet across
are scattered all over the parched
ground they're organized in a
honeycomb-like pattern
and stretch fifteen hundred miles toward
the horizon
these patches are also known as fairy
circles
no one knows much about their origin but
there are
lots of theories from the radioactivity
of the soil
to the activity of sand termites
pycham crater also known as fire eagles
nest
is a massive hill in southeastern
siberia it's made up of shattered
limestone
chumps it's more than 500 feet across at
the base
and over 130 feet high researchers think
the crater is around 300 years old
but its origin is unclear the theories
include a meteorite crash
a volcanic eruption or a steam explosion
the most mysterious thing about the
crater is that animals are
unwilling to go anywhere near it almost
no grass
plants or trees grow on top of the hill
for the first time a bizarre sound later
called the up sweep
was registered in 1991 in the pacific
ocean
one of the most unusual things about the
sound is that it's constantly changing
it varies from high to low frequencies
and then back again
you can hear it better in the spring and
fall than in the winter and summer
the sound travels from the bottom of the
ocean towards its surface scientists do
have a theory explaining this phenomenon
they think it might be the activity of
undersea volcanoes that causes the sound
hot lava that's pouring into the ice
cold ocean water
can theoretically produce this noise but
researchers haven't found any evidence
to confirm this theory yet
if you get to the bottom of the
caribbean just off the coast of cuba
you'll see circular columns paved floors
symmetrical stone structures that's what
the cuban underwater city looks like
why was a large city abandoned at a
depth of more than two thousand feet
lots of people believe the ruins once
belonged to a long forgotten
civilization
but scientists have their doubts they
claim the lost city is nothing but a
natural phenomenon that appeared about
five million years ago
such disc and doughnut structures often
occur around the areas of the sea floor
where natural gases break free
those who have ever heard an annoying
noise a kettle makes when the water is
boiling
can imagine what the whistle sounds like
even though this noise isn't as blood
curdling as some other
unexplained sounds it doesn't make the
whistle any less mysterious
it's incredibly elusive in 1997
only one underwater microphone was able
to pick it up
at that time researchers didn't manage
to pinpoint the source of the noise
the most likely cause of the unusual
sound is the eruption of one of the
submarine volcanoes
but once again there's not enough proof
to make sure
now imagine watching a volcano eruption
which is a terrifying view in itself
suddenly you notice ominous bright
flashes lighting the sky
over the volcano this brings the scary
experience to an entirely new level
the mysterious phenomenon is called
volcanic lightning
it occurs because of static electricity
when dense ash particles rub together
not high above the ground another source
of volcanic lightning is high above the
surface
near the stratosphere there chaotically
moving ice crystals
trigger the powerful jolts now this one
started in the 1970s
that's when hundreds of bristol's
inhabitants began to complain about a
bizarre noise
it was audible only at night the sound
was a low
frequency hum nobody could identify or
trace its source
but the strangest thing about the hum
was that one day
it ended as abruptly as it started but
not before people in other towns across
britain reported hearing
similar sounds some time ago the
enigmatic sound returned
in 2015 a group of scientists claimed
they had solved the mystery of the
bristol hum
they stated that the culprit was massive
waves that made the ocean floor vibrate
but this theory doesn't explain why the
sound was around for only several years
why it disappeared and why it chose to
return
[Music]
just off the coast of belize there's a
giant sinkhole
that's the great blue hole good name the
thing is about 1 000 feet across and
more than 400 feet deep
once a long long time ago this hole was
a cave
but then rising waters filled this cave
making it collapse in on itself
the deeper you descend into the great
hole's crystalline waters
the darker it becomes you see tons of
stalactite-filled caves
entering them is risky you can get
hopelessly lost
scientists think the hole won't be
around much longer waterfalls of sand
fill it every day
turning the place into a huge underwater
hourglass
the sardine run lasts from may to july
during this time millions of sardines
swim upward towards south africa's east
coast
you can probably imagine a feeding
frenzy that starts at that time
researchers know surprisingly little
about this phenomenon
they believe the water temperature must
get lower than 70 degrees fahrenheit for
the migration to begin
now you can find hair ice in the forest
on a humid winter night
it looks like candy floss or a
white-haired wig
unusual ice crystals grow on rotting
wood
unfortunately it all melts as soon as
the sun comes up
scientists have discovered what creates
hair ice only recently
fungus it allows eyes to form super thin
hairs and helps them to keep their form
throughout the night
when this particular type of fungus
isn't around instead of fragile hair
ice forms a crust like structure
while exploring the amazon rainforest
researchers discovered gigantic
geoglyphs
their geometrical drawings carved in the
ground
the trenches were as large as 36 feet
wide and 13 feet deep
they were created at different times
most between the first to the 15th
century
there are more than 450 geoglyphs in the
north of bolivia
and brazil the most ancient of them
could be created 3 500 to 3 000 years
ago
the huge earthworks were likely used for
common meetings and discussions
but scientists haven't found enough
proof yet
frost flowers bloom on young sea ice in
the arctic ocean
or on thin lake eyes they're fragile and
delicate ice crystals
these structures grow when temperatures
change they draw moisture from the ice
surface and rise
capturing bacteria and salt frost
flowers are also home to unusual
microbes
those can survive in the coldest
temperatures you can only imagine
you can find frost flowers around
antarctica too
but wherever these crystals grow people
know disappointingly
little about them in denmark
people are used to the black sun but
this phenomenon with a scary name
has nothing to do with stars and space
every spring and fall millions of
starlings begin their annual migration
they leave sweden finland and norway and
head toward britain belgium and france
but it's denmark that's lucky to observe
sort soul
that's the danish name for the black sun
the birds travel in large flocks this
way it's easier to exchange information
and stay warm
before landing starlings make movements
that look like dancing
in reality this is done to shoo enemies
away
dark sun lasts only 20 minutes during
the sunset
and you have to be either fast or lucky
to see this phenomenon